Preaching in the province of Quebec was a real challenge.
The Catholic Church was present in every sphere of public life.
In the early 40s, the persecution took on quite a bit of emphasis.
Many witnesses were being arrested.
Any excuse was used.
Peddling without a license, this was a favorite excuse.
Jehovah's Witnesses were put in prison
whenever they were seen with religious literature.
It had got so bad in Quebec that it was decided to circulate a petition.
And this petition was circulated throughout Canada
and it called on the government of Quebec to put an end to this persecution.
And interestingly, some 600,000 people signed the petition.
The witnesses distributed a very fiery track called the Burning Hade of Quebec.
And in this track, they showed what was really happening.
The actions of the policemen, the illegal arrests, the mob action.
Within four months, there was 800 new court cases.
So here for 400 Jehovah's Witnesses, you had 1600 court cases.
The seriousness of the court cases increased in that now they were accusing the brothers of sedition.
If convicted, it was more than 10, maybe 12 or 15 years in prison.
We have one brother, Amy Boucher, who was arrested and charged with sedition.
Amy Boucher was a very poor brother, lived in a rural part of Quebec.
And he actually went to court with his ox and buggy.
And on the way to court, he was preaching.
So he was arrested again.
They had the court hearing and he was condemned.
He was found guilty of sedition.
And his case went up to the court of appeal.
And at that time, the court of appeal of Quebec was very hostile.
And he lost on appeal.
So it went up to the Supreme Court of Canada.
And by this time, there were several other brothers and sisters also charged on sedition.
Which meant that if he lost his case, we had several going to prison for very lengthy prison terms.
When brother Boucher's case came before the Supreme Court, he lost by a majority of one.
The Catholic judges all ruled against him.
And they found that the track, the burning hate of Quebec, was seditious.
Our lawyers looked at the situation, prayed about it, and thought, what can we do?
We can't lose this battle.
And they realized that in Canada, there was a very rarely used provision of asking the Supreme Court for a rehearing.
At the rehearing, one of the Catholic judges was willing to discuss further the issue of sedition.
And to be guilty of sedition, you have to incite to violence.
So our attorney asked them, please, look at the record.
Show the court where Jehovah's Witnesses incited to violence.
And finally, they were able to convince the court they were wrong.
And so they overturned their initial decision.
And brother Boucher's case was victorious.
This dealt with all the accusations of sedition.
And really brought to an end the vicious opposition, because that case was the one the government was hoping would work out for them.
There is one case that's quite noteworthy in Quebec.
And it's a case of the priests calling up the federal police to come and interrupt a meeting of Jehovah's Witnesses
and expel the speaker from the province of Quebec.
Police obeyed the priests, they went to the meeting, they took the brother, and they escorted him out of the province into Ontario.
And to disrupt a religious meeting was a criminal act.
For the first time, and it's at the level of the Supreme Court, they found that the two policemen had to pay moral damages to the brothers for intercepting or interrupting the meeting.
This has never happened before.
And when it came up to the Supreme Court, the unanimously ruled against the province of Quebec.
The section on religious freedom is the result of these court cases.
Every lawyer in Canada, whether in Quebec or in English Canada, when he studies law must review these cases.
They are the fundamentals of religious freedom.
And they represent the different areas, police action, government action, criminal action.
And they lay a very nice basis for our freedoms today.
Our purpose is to be able to preach the good news and to direct people's attention toward the Bible.
But our court cases have helped governments, courts, judges, and officials to have the right point of view on the issue of religious freedom.